Caribbean Recipes

Bajan Chicken

Ingredients:

1 egg
flour
vegetable oil
3 cups of dry breadcrumbs
1 tablespoon of soy sauce
3 cloves of garlic, minced
1/2 teaspoon of ground cloves
4 chicken breasts, skin removed
2 tablespoon of fresh parsley, chopped
2 tablespoon of fresh squeezed lime juice
1/2 teaspoon of freshly ground black pepper
6 green onions, finely chopped including tops
1 tablespoon of Caribbean-style Habanero sauce
3 fresh of Habanero chiles, finely chopped
stems and seeds removed

Directions:

First combine the green onions, chiles, garlic, lime juice, parsley or cilantro, cloves and the ground pepper.

Next cut deep slits in the chicken breast then fill in with the mixture.

Now secure the open end with a toothpick to keep the stuffing from falling out. Beat the egg then combine with the soy sauce and pepper sauce.

Lightly dust chicken with the flour, dip in the egg mixture and roll in the bread crumbs.

Finally, heat the oil to 375 degrees F. and fry the chicken until its golden brown for at least 3 to 4 minutes on each side.

Makes 4 servings.



ITAL STEW

Ingredients:

1 hot pepper
1 pound of yam
1 pound of coco
3 green bananas
juice of 1/2 lime
1 pound of pumpkin
1/2 pound of cassava
1/2 pound of breadfruit
2 pints of vegetable stock
freshly ground black pepper
plain or cornmeal dumplings

Directions:

First you must remove the seeds from the pumpkin. Wash and peel the yam, pumpkin, coco and the cassava.

Next slice breadfruit in wedges, peel and cut out the heart. Chop all the vegetable in fairly large pieces.

Now bring the stock to a boil in a large pan. Add vegetables, hot pepper with the black pepper. Turn heat down then simmer for about 20 minutes.

Mix the dumplings and add to the pan, turn up the heat and cook it till the dumplings are done.

In a separate pan boil the green bananas in their skins, having cut off both ends split
the skin deeply with a knife.

When cooked, allow to cool a little before peeling. Cut each banana into 3 pieces and add to the stew with the lime juice.

Finally, remove the hot pepper once the stew has been reheated. Enjoy!

Yield: 4-6 Servings

