Title: Moroccan Chick Pea Soup
  
4 servings
2 tb Safflower oil
2 x  Carrots, grated
2 x  Cloves Garlic, minced
1 x  Med Onion, chop fine (1/2 c)
15 oz Can Chick Peas, rinse,draine
3 cups  Vegetable stock
1/3 c  Tahini
2 tb Lemon juice
1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
3/4 ts Ground Cumin
1/2 ts Black pepper
1/2 ts Thyme leaves
1/4 ts Powdered tumeric
1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
  
GARNISH: toasted sesame seeds, minced scallions, finely chopped
tomatoes, or Herbed Garlic Croutons, optional
In a large saucepan, heat oil. Add carrots, garlic, and onion; cook
until tender. Set aside.
Meanwhile, in food processor, puree chick peas, 1 cup of vegetable
stock, tahini, and lemon juice.
Stir pureed mixture into saucepan. Add remaining ingredients including vegetable stock. Cover and cook for 5 minutes to heat through. Top with garnish if desired.

VARIATIONS: - substitute olive oil for safflower oil
- add 1 med sweet red pepper, finely chopped; saute with
other veggies.


MOROCCAN LEMON CHICKEN WITH OLIVES
  
4 servings
 
1    medium onion. peeled and quartered
2    medium garlic cloves, peeled and minced
2 1/2 lb chicken, skinned
2 tbsp flour
1 tbsp olive oil
2 1/2 cup water, divided
1/8 tsp saffron
1/2 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp paprika
1/4 tsp salt
3 tb lemon juice
grated peel of 2 lemons
1/2 cup  green olives, pitted and coarsely chopped
2 tbsp minced cilantro
3/4 cup  Couscous
Fresh ground black pepper
 
In a food processor, finely chop onion and garlic. Dredge chicken in
flour. In a large skillet, heat oil over medium heat. Saute chicken
and onion mixture until mixture has softened, about 10 minutes.
Stir in one cup water, saffron, ginger, cumin, paprika, salt and
emon peel. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer, covered, 35
minutes. Remove chicken from sauce and allow to cool a few minutes.
Debone chicken and cut meat into small pieces. Put meat back into
sauce with the lemon juice, olives, cilantro and pepper. Simmer
gently 5 minutes.
While the chicken is cooking, bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil
in a medium saucepan. Add the couscous and bring back to a boil.
Remove from heat and allow to sit for 5 minutes.
Spoon chicken mixture over couscous and serve.
 
